Before I ask you about, uh, one, but several, uh, really exciting studies.
Um, let me ask sort of a personal question for me.
So if I wanted to get psychedelics from
the maps, public benefit corporation and, uh,
explore my own, um, how do I get to do that?
Uh, and when.
You won't be able to, you'll never be able to,
this is very unfortunate be because the,
the reason is because the benefit Corp is designed as a pharmaceutical company.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so we can only work on clinical indications.
So let's say you, you come to me and you just say, oh, I'm really depressed.
Can I get MDMA to overcome my depression or overcome my PTSD?
You know, we'll have to do research in those indications. Um.
And by when you say me, you mean like a doctor,
so this would be prescribed in theory, by a doctor.
This would go through a doctor. Yes. And a prescription. Okay. Let me, uh,
let me ask another question. Oh, but.
Let for the, or answer. So, so that's where the drug policy arm comes in. Yes.
The drug policy reform.
So you should be able to get access to psychedelics for your own personal
growth. Yes, but that's not medicine.
So that's why we need to medicalize to have things covered by insurance
to change people's attitudes, the public attitudes.
And then we get this subsequent drug policy reform and,
and we're talking about it in terms of licensed legalization.
So my view is you should get a license to do psychedelics,
you get a little education stuff, and then,
then you should be able to buy it and do it on your.
Own. So let me rephrase the question in more specifically. So when can I,
if I happen to have, um,
ailments of some kind where the doctor decides that psychedelic could help,
when would you be a loose estimate for you of when a doctor will be
able to prescribe to me something from, uh, maps, public benefit,
co mm-hmm <affirmative> and then when for my personal growth and creativity,
would I be able to get something? So like,
just looking out this isn't my guarantee, but like your vision, your hope. Yeah.
Um, for, yeah. For, for psychedelics in society.
Well, the end of 2023, so two and a half years from now,
we anticipate FDA approval for the prescription use of M DMA for PTSD,
because the FDA does not, uh, regulate the practice of medicine.
There is what's called off-label prescription.
What that means the label is what it's approved for. So the label will say,
this is approved for PTSD. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
but let's say you come and anything else, social anxiety or whatever,
you can go to the doctor, they can give it to you.
It might not be covered by insurance.
They have to be a little bit careful about milk practice if there,
but I think the end of 2023 is when you will be able to do that.
Now there's actually another program,
very limited called expanded access, which is compassionate use,
which means that,
and we have approval for 50 people for compassionate use right now,
we think that'll grow. So that's gonna open up in about two months.
And so those are people with PTSD. They have to be treatment resistant,
nothing has worked for them and they can access MDMA while we're doing the phase
three studies. Wow. And, but they have to pay for it themselves. We're not,
the sponsor has to pay for all the research,
but expanded access because there's no control group.
Everybody gets the M D a people can pay for it themselves.
And we think that'll start in a couple months, but it's very limited.
It's limited to certain cities. There's also a program called right to try,
which is, um, asked through Congress. It's, it's,
it's similar to this idea of compassionate use, but it cuts the FDA out of it.
And mm-hmm <affirmative>, um, patients can negotiate directly with, um,
pharma companies to get access to their drugs. Um, that's starting to happen.
I think in Canada now they're letting people have compassionate access to Sy
Ibin be for life-threatening illness,
because there has been studies with Cy for cancer patients and others with
life-threatening illness.
As far as your question about when will you be able to access this for personal
growth outside of medicine? I'll, I'll take that to mean, you know,
fully legally, where you can just go buy pure drugs somewhere.
When will that happen? You know, we already,
you are starting to see the decriminalization in certain areas of plants,
psychedelics,
and we see overall drug decrem like that passed in Oregon.
So that any drug is now, it's not legal.
You can't really fully set up clinics to, to offer it to people,
or there's no legal supply like that, but you it's decriminalized.
So my sense of things is based a lot on watching what happened with medical
marijuana and marijuana legalization.
So we're sitting here in Massachusetts where marijuana is legal,
but what happened first was medical marijuana.
So what we see is that medicalization by
demonstrating that under certain contexts,
that risk are much less than the benefits.
And then there are benefits and then people hear stories about people that have
gotten better, and then that changes their minds.
And then eventually that builds up to why are we throwing people in jail shift
the culture? Yeah. Yeah.
So I think that what we're gonna have 2023 is MDM a, uh,
approved by the FDA. Chances are psilocybin will be a year two. After that,
then what we're gonna need is a decade of psychedelic clinics that are gonna
roll out across America. Also other countries as well,
thousands of these psychedelic clinics,
we already have hundreds of ketamine clinics that are ketamine for depress.
Um,
more and more people are realizing that ketamine when it's used with therapy,
it's better than when it's not mm-hmm <affirmative>. Um,
but the therapists want to be psychedelic therapists.
They don't want to be a ketamine therapist or an MDMA therapist.
So they'll be cross-trained.
So we'll have a decade of these thousands of psychedelic clinics and all these
stories of people getting better in 2035 is when I think that we will move to
licensed legalization, which is when you will have the option of, um,
just going somewhere, once you've, uh, done this educational stuff, potentially,
I also think it would be better to have the opportunity for people to go for
free paid for, by tax money, to these clinics.
And you have your first experience with psychedelics under supervision and you
know what you're getting into mm-hmm, <affirmative>, you've, you know,
task a questionnaire, what the risks are, what the drugs,
then you get your license. Mm-hmm <affirmative> so 2035.
So when I think that'll happen and the clinics will be sites of these in
initiations. Yes.
And so it'd be a safe environment, just like you said,
all the things that are actually, um,
maximize the likelihood of a pleasant experience and all those kinds of things.
Yeah. It, it is a frustratingly slow process. Um,
and that FDA being part of that process is very frustrating. That,
of course there's there's benefits, but, uh, boy, well,
I wish you could move a lot faster.
Yeah. Well, one thing that I've learned from, uh, being a parent,
um, is that, um, when you have little kids,
it seems like they'll be with you forever,
but then when they grow up and they go to college and they leave,
do you look back and like, where did that 20 years ago? Or, you know,
so we're still dealing with the legacy of the civil war and slavery in America.
Yeah. So actually a 20 year plan is not that long. Yeah. So while,
while we say, um, it's frustratingly slow and it is,
you know, I mean it's 50 years since, uh, the psychedelic sixties.
And you know, when right now it's, um,
you know, it's 36 years since MDMA was criminalized.
And you think about all those people that committed suicide from PTSD or from
anything else and all those people that could have been helped if the DEA
had accepted the administrative law judge recommendation that MDMA scan stay in
schedule three it's it's, it's tremendously sad at the same time,
culturally evolves slowly. You know,
you read the Bible or you read all this stuff.
We're not that different from people thousands years ago.
So how are we gonna really evolve enough over the next couple decades?
So we don't destroy the planet and don't kill each other. Um,
that's why I think, uh, psychedelics have an important role to play.
That's why I've devoted my life to psychedelics and it is frustratingly slow.
And what I said to myself is our whole effort has not been fast
enough.